Document backports (#542)
submariner-io/submariner-website: src/content/development/backports/_index.en.md

---
title: "Backports"
date: 2021-06-21T16:03:26+02:00
weight: 5
---

Fixes for serious issues or regressions affecting previous releases may be backported to the corresponding branches,
to be included in the next release from that branch.

## Requesting a backport

Backports can only be requested on fixes made against a later branch, or the `devel` branch.
(This doesn’t mean that bugs can’t be fixed in older branches directly; but where relevant, they should first be fixed on `devel`.)

To request such a backport, identify the relevant pull request, and add the “backport” label to it.
You should also add a comment to the pull request explaining why the backport is necessary, and which branch(es) are targeted.
Issues should _not_ be labeled, they are liable to be overlooked or lack a one-to-one mapping to a code fix.

## Handling backports

Pending backports can be identified using

> [this query, listing all non-archived pull requests with a “backport” label and without a “backport-handled” label](https://github.com/pulls?q=is%3Apr+archived%3Afalse+user%3Asubmariner-io+label%3Abackport+-label%3Abackport-handled).

Reviewer: This is a that long link:

```suggestion
[this query](https://github.com/pulls?q=is%3Apr+archived%3Afalse+user%3Asubmariner-io+label%3Abackport+-label%3Abackport-handled) that lists all non-archived pull requests with a “backport” label and without a “backport-handled” label.
```

Author: “this query” isn’t a descriptive link; descriptive links are important for accessibility (_e.g._ when using a screen reader).

Check out a new backport branch based on the _target_ branch;
for example, to backport PR 1431 in the operator to the 0.9 release branch:

```sh
git checkout -b backport-1431-0.9 origin/release-0.9
```

Then, cherry pick the commits:

```sh
git cherry-pick -x 0448fcd60972da03c84c345c24c2cf1c34b6b42b
```

The `-x` option ensures that the commit is referenced in the resulting commit message.

If necessary, resolve any conflicts which occur, and conclude with

```sh
git cherry-pick --continue
```

Push the resulting branch and open a new pull request; add “Backport: ” to the pull request description to identify it as a backport.
(Do not use the “backport” label here; that doesn’t identify backports, it identifies requested backports.)
On the original pull request, add a comment referencing the new pull request and identifying it as a backport to the relevant release.

Once _all_ the requested backports of the original pull request have been handled, add the “backport-handled” label.
This will result in the pull request disappearing from the list of pending backports.

### Pull requests requiring dependent backports

> <!-- TODO skitt document dependent backports -->

Reviewer: Will this be done in this PR or follow-up?

Author: That’s up to the reviewers — if the PR makes sense as-is, let’s get it in and I’ll follow up, otherwise I’ll tackle the missing section before we merge.
